# Abfahrtsmonitor
---------------

This is a project to show public transport departure times on an e-ink display.
The project design and architecture is highly custom to my (weird) setup but could serve as basis for your own project.
To get the departure times the library pyhafas is used with a regional specific modification for NAH-SH which you can modify from the my-profiles folder (or don't if your Verkehrsgesellschaft is already supported by pyhafas)

Disclaimer: The layout of the screen was generated by promting chatgpt (to keep my sanity from placing everything pixelwise) so use the functions at your own risk.

This is a semi-step-by-step guide to recreate my setup.

## Hardware:
Raspberry Pi (any version will work fine I think)<br>
    raspbian OS with any halfway recent version - UI doesn't matter<br>
    I used raspbian without an UI (HUGE MISTAKE)<br>
waveshare 7.5 inch e-ink display<br>
A pictureframe I guess<br>

## Software setup
Due to personal restrictions I skipped using any graphic libraries except for the waveshare library.
The project is built in a downgraded python 3.11 with downgraded libraries you can reproduce it like this (in your project folder):
```
python3 -m venv venv311
source venv311/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

you can later activate it manually by calling:
```
source venv311/bin/activate
```
Now (one of) the freaky things I did to get this to work on my system:<br>
The fonts are pregenerated pixelwise scans of helvetica. These are stored in a dict-format in helvetica_bitmap.py or upscaled of font2x.py

In get_weather.py:<br>
    change the default position in 
    def get_weather_info(latitude=54, longitude=10):
    to your location.

achtkugel.py brings a magic eightball function that either answers "yes" or "no" - this can be visualized with the magic eightball icon in icons_arrays_eightball.py (a pixelwise black or white array stored as python array)

icons_arrays.py gives pixelwise icons for weather states such like sunny, cloudy, rain etc. and combinations of these

get_hafas.py this is highly custom to my needs... it returns a weirdly formatted dict. I recommend completely replacing this and the corresponding code in print_screen_weather_busses.py

depending on your setup's filestructure you have to change the filepaths in printer_caller.sh

then setup a systemd service like:
```
nano /etc/systemd/system/abfahrtsmonitor.service
```
and then paste (change paths and users according to your system):
```
    [Unit]
    Description=Abfahrtsmonitor Display Script
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    Type=simple
    User=pi
    WorkingDirectory=/home/pi/Projekte/Abfahrtsmonitor_NAHSH
    ExecStart=/home/pi/Projekte/Abfahrtsmonitor_NAHSH/printer_caller.sh
    Restart=always

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

reload after modifying the file:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```
useful commands:
```
CHECK STATUS:
sudo systemctl status abfahrtsmonitor.service

CHECK LOG:
sudo journalctl -u abfahrtsmonitor.service -f

STOP BACKGROUND PROCESS:
sudo systemctl stop abfahrtsmonitor.service

RESTART PROCESS:
sudo systemctl restart abfahrtsmonitor.service
```
and presto!
